ISPN-13157 file store docs (#9433)
infinispan/infinispan: documentation/src/main/asciidoc/topics/con_file_based_cache_stores.adoc

[id='file-stores_{context}']
= File-Based Cache Stores

File-based cache stores provide persistent storage on the local host filesystem where {brandname} is running.
For clustered caches, file-based cache stores are unique to each {brandname} node.

> You should use file-based cache stores to persist data that overflows from memory when the data container exceeds size or time restrictions.

Reviewer: Not sure what you mean by time restrictions. Expiration will remove from stores as well. Stores can also be used even when data doesn't overflow ( overflow to me implies passivation).

Author: Yeah, let's just remove this sentence.

[WARNING]
====
Never use filesystem-based cache stores on shared file systems, such as an NFS or Samba share, because they do not provide file locking capabilities and data corruption can occur.

Additionally if you attempt to use transactional caches with shared file systems, unrecoverable failures can happen when writing to files during the commit phase.
====

[discrete]
== Soft-Index File Stores

[NOTE]
====
`SoftIndexFileStore` is the default implementation for file-based cache stores.
====

> `SoftIndexFileStore` is a Java implementation that uses a variant of **B+

Reviewer: I would say it is more important to say that soft index stores data in append only files which are then indexed using a B+ Tree that can be both stored on disk and in memory, with the latter being removed if necessary by the GC with soft references.

Once the append only file reaches its configured max size it will create a new file and start writing only to the new one.

Old data files will be compacted when their size reaches the compaction threshold which defaults to 50% removing the old files.

I am not sure how you want to word it exactly.

Tree** that is cached in-memory using Java soft references.

> The **B+ Tree**, called `Index` is offloaded on the file system to a single file that is purged and rebuilt each time the cache store restarts.

Reviewer: The index is actually stored in a user configured amount of indices. The default is 16. There are two reasons for this number, one is that concurrent writes can have the index cause a bottleneck. And the second which is more important now is that when iterating over the soft index all entries are read from a single index, thus we want to minimize how many entries can be read at the same time.

`SoftIndexFileStore` stores data in a set of files rather than a single file.
When usage of any file drops below 50%, the entries in the file are overwritten to another file and the file is then deleted.

`SoftIndexFileStore` persists data in a set of files that are written in an append-only method.
For this reason, if you use `SoftIndexFileStore` on conventional magnetic disk, it does not need to seek when writing a burst of entries.

> Most structures in `SoftIndexFileStore` are bounded, so out-of-memory exceptions do not pose a risk.

Reviewer: Out of memory could still happen even with bounded structures if they are misconfigured. The main reason that this store will not pose out of memory issues is because the index is stored using java SoftReference as mentioned above so if it grows too big it will free those, while still falling back to the disk.

You can also configure limits for concurrently open files.

By default the size of a node in the `Index` is limited to 4096 bytes.
This size also limits the key length, more precisely the length of serialized keys, which means you cannot use keys longer than the size of the node, 15
bytes.
Additionally, key length is stored as "short", which limits key length to 32767 bytes.
`SoftIndexFileStore` throws an exception if keys are longer after serialization occurs.

`SoftIndexFileStore` cannot detect expired entries, which can lead to excessive usage of space on the file system .

[NOTE]
====
The `AdvancedStore.purgeExpired()` method is not implemented in `SoftIndexFileStore`.
====

.Segmentation

> Soft-index file stores are segmented by default with a separate instance per segment, which results in multiple directories.

Reviewer: This is no longer true. There is only one SoftIndex instance and the index knows which segment each key maps to so it knows if an entry is needed to be returned or not.

Also we need to mention that soft index now only runs in segmented mode. We don't need to mention this in the docs but the benefit of 4 bytes per entry is vastly overshadowed by rehash and iteration performance improvements.

Author: How about if we simply to "Soft-index file stores are always segmented."?

Reviewer: Sure.

> Each directory is a number that represents the segment to which the data maps.

Reviewer: This is no longer true either as there is only one soft index for all segments.

[discrete]
== Single File Cache Stores

[NOTE]
====
Single file cache stores are now deprecated and planned for removal.
====

Single File cache stores, `SingleFileStore`, persist data to file.
{brandname} also maintains an in-memory index of keys while keys and values are stored in the file.

Because `SingleFileStore` keeps an in-memory index of keys and the location of values, it requires additional memory, depending on the key size and the number of keys.

> For this reason, `SingleFileStore` is not recommended for use cases where the keys have a large size.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this reason, `SingleFileStore` is not recommended for use cases where the keys are larger or there can be a larger number of them.
```

When append-only files:

* Reach their maximum size, {brandname} creates a new file and starts writing to it.
* Reach the compaction threshold of less than 50% usage, {brandname} overwrites the entries to a new file and then deletes the old file.

.B+ trees

To improve performance, append-only files in a `SoftIndexFileStore` are indexed using a **B+ Tree** that can be stored both on disk and in memory.
The in-memory index uses Java soft references to ensure it can be rebuilt if removed by Garbage Collection (GC) then requested again.

Because `SoftIndexFileStore` uses Java soft references to keep indexes in memory, it helps prevent out-of-memory exceptions.
GC removes indexes before they consume too much memory while still falling back to disk.

You can configure any number of B+ trees.
By default {brandname} creates up to 16 B+ trees, which means there can be up to 16 indexes.
Having multiple indexes prevents bottlenecks from concurrent writes to an index.
It also minimizes the number of entries that can be read at the same time because {brandname} reads all entries at the same time when it iterates over a soft-index file store.

> Fewer indexes means that {brandname} must perform more reads.

Reviewer: I would say just remove this line.

Each entry in the B+ tree is a node.
By default, the size of each node is limited to 4096 bytes.
This size also limits the key length, more precisely the length of serialized keys, which means you cannot use keys longer than the size of the node, 15
bytes.

> Additionally, key length is stored as "short", which limits key length to 32767 bytes.

Reviewer: The key cannot be larger than the node size less than the some reserved space, so in that case the key by default can't be larger than 4096 or so.
